KEYSTONE FIGURE 320 BUTTERFLY VALVES
INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE INSTRUCTIONS
© 2017 Emerson. All Rights Reserved.
IMPORTANT
Before valves are being installed or used
the following actions are recommended.
1. Valves/parts have to be inspected and
thoroughly cleaned if required.
2. Rubber parts need to be greased with silicone
grease if not present anymore.
3. All surfaces in contact with seats have to be
thoroughly cleaned and greased with silicone
grease if stored for more than 5 months.
HAZARD POTENTIALS
• disregarding of instructions
• improper use of product
• insufficiently qualified personnel
Valve application to be within the pressure/
temperature limits indicated in the P/T diagram.
Essential points and functions of the valve
should be inspected on a regular basis.
When the valve is used in an end-of-line
function, PED Cat-I applications are allowed
only. For other categories, contact factory.
Emerson.com/FinalControl
1.3 Handling
1.3.1 Packed valves
Lifting and handling of the packed valves in
crates should be carried out by appropriate
lifting equipment. If a fork lift truck is used,
appropriate fork hitches are required.
The lifting and handling of packed valves in
cases will be carried out in the lifting points.
The transportation of all packed material
should be carried out safely and according the
local safety regulations.
1.3.2 Unpacked valves
The lifting and the handling of these valves
has to be carried out by using appropriate
means and by respecting the carrying limits.
The handling must, preferably, be carried out
on pallets, protecting the machined surfaces
and seat to avoid damage.
When lifting the large dimension valves,
the sling and the hooking of the load must
be carried out by using the appropriate tools
(brackets, hook, fasteners) and load balancing
tools in order to prevent the valves from falling
or moving during the lifting and handling.
The valve may be lifted only by slings attached
to the flange holes or valve body; never to
the actuator or the valve opening.
Before installation these instructions must be fully read and understood
1 STORAGE AND HANDLING
1.1 Protection
Keystone butterfly valves are delivered with
protection in accordance with the Keystone
Engineering Instructions, to protect the valve
seats and disc from damage. Wrapping and/or
covers should be left in place until immediately
before fitting to the pipe.
1.2 Storage
When valves are to be stored for some time
(2 months or more) before being fitted, storage
should be in the original delivery crates or cases.
1.2.1 Storage conditions
The valves should be stored off the ground in a
clean, dry indoor area.
Protect the valve from temperature and humidity
extremes, and exposure to excessive dust,
moisture, vibration, deformations, sunlight and
ozone.
Recommendations
1. Temperature: storage temperature below
25°C, above 0°C preferable below 15°C.
2. Humidity: storage conditions should be such
that condensation does not occur, store in
a dry environment. Maximal 50% relative
humidity.
3. Light: valve rubbers should be protected
from light, in particular direct sunlight or
strong artificial light with high ultra violet.
4. Ozone: storage rooms should not contain
any equipment generating ozone. E.g. lamps,
electric motors.
VCIOM-00752-EN 18/02
2
KEYSTONE FIGURE 320 BUTTERFLY VALVES
INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE INSTRUCTIONS
2 INSTALLATION
WARNING
For safety reasons, it is important to take
the following precautions before you start work
on the valve:
1. Personnel making any adjustments to
the valves should utilize suitable equipment.
All required personal protection means should
be worn.
2. The line must be depressurized before
installing the valve.
3. Personnel trained in all aspects of manual and
mechanical handling techniques must carry
out handling of the valves.
4. Misuse of the valve is not allowed. For example:
the valve, handles, actuators or other parts may
not be used as ‘climbing tools’.
5. Ensure that valve pressure/temperature
limitations marked on the identification tag
are within the service conditions. The trim
number on the valve’s tagplate identifies
the valve materials. See Product Manual for
valve specific P/T diagram and trim number
definition.
6. Ensure that valve materials are compatible
with the pipeline fluid.
YY
D max./min.
Q
2.3 Valve installation
The valves are bi-directional and may be fitted
in either direction relative to the flow. The valve
will control flow equally in either direction.
The recommended installation position is shaft
horizontal and the lower disc edge opening
down-stream. (Especially for slurry service
and media with a tendency for sedimentation).
For optimum valve control and smooth
performance, it is recommended to have a 10 to
20 pipe diameters of straight run inlet piping
and 3 to 5 pipe diameters straight outlet piping.
A valve is no crow-bar. Do not use the valve
to spread the flanges. Seat damage might be
the result.
2.1 Valve inspection
1. Carefully remove the valve from the shipping
package (box or pallet) avoiding any damage
to the valve or, in case of automated valves,
to the electric or pneumatic/hydraulic
actuator or instrumentation.
2. Confirm that the materials of construction
listed on the valve nameplate are
appropriate for the service intended and are
as specified.
3. It is not allowed to use third party spare
parts. In case of third party spare parts,
safe operation is not guaranteed.
2.2 Flange and pipe compatibility
Check matching of flange drilling pattern of
valve and pipe before assembly.
Flanges have to meet the following
requirements:
- The face inside diameter should be:
D min.: the valve Q-dimension + adequate
disc clearance.
D max.: the inside diameter (ID) of standard
pipe for the nominal size ISO 4200.
- If the flange (or pipe) is provided with a raised
face, the diameter of this shall be at least 8 mm
larger than the YY-dimension of the valve.
The use of the flange-gaskets is not allowed
since it might damage the valve.
The Keystone seat-face design eliminates the
need for the gaskets.
Use flange bolting in agreement with
appropriate standard.
Do not use flange gaskets!
NOTES
- The valve can be installed in the pipe-line either with
or without the actuator mounted on top of the valve.
Make sure that you can turn the disc cautious so you
can feel a mismatch resulting from a disc touching
the adjacent piping.
- Do not use the valve as a support of the pipe line
construction.
- Adjacent piping must be positioned so that minimal
piping stresses are transmitted to the valve flanges
during or after installation.
- Handling and lifting of the valves during installation
MUST be performed following the same instructions
described in previous paragraph ‘1.3 Handling’.
IMPORTANT
Mating flange faces should be in good condition
and free of dirt and/or inclusions. Both pipe
insides to be well cleaned.
3
2.3.1 Existing system (see sketch)
1. Check whether the flange distance
meets the valve face-to-face dimensions.
Spread with adequate tooling the flanges
for easy insertion of the valve.
2. In case of a wafer valve, insert some flange
bolts in the pipe flanges, to help you bear
the valve after insertion.
3. Close the valve so far, that the disc edge is
at least 10 mm within the body.
4. Insert the valve between the flanges, center
the valve body and insert all flange bolts.
Tighten the flange-bolts hand tight.
5. Slowly open the valve completely. (The disc
is in line with parallel flats on stemhead).
6. Maintain the valve flange alignment while
gradually removing the flange-spreaders
and tighten the flange-bolts hand tight.
7. Slowly close and open the valve to check for
adequate disc clearance.
8. Cross-tighten all bolting to the proper torque.
Do not over tighten.
KEYSTONE FIGURE 320 BUTTERFLY VALVES
INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE INSTRUCTIONS
2.3.2 New system (see sketch)
1. With the disc in near-closed position center
each mating flange with the valve body.
Fix the body with some flange-bolts and
tighten the bolts.
2. Use the flange-valve-flange assembly for
fit-up and centering to the pipe.
3. Tack-weld the flanges to the pipe.
4. Remove the bolting and remove the valve
from between the flanges.
IMPORTANT
Do not finish-weld the flanges to the pipe with
the valve bolted between the flanges as this will
result in serious heat-damage to the seat.
5. Finish-weld the flanges to the pipe and
allow the flanges to cool completely.
6. Install the valve now according to the
procedure for installing in existing systems.
2.4 Valve verification
Check the operation of the valve by operating
it to ‘full open’ and ‘full close’. To verify
the valve operation, the disc position indicator
on the actuator or the handle should rotate
between the ‘full open’ and ‘full close’
indicators on the actuator or throttle plate.
Generally the valve disc travels clockwise
to close.
EXISTING SYSTEM NEW SYSTEM
1. Spread the flanges with the adequate tooling.
Insert some flange bolts to bear the valve.
1. Center a flange-valve-flange assembly between
the pipes.
2. Open the valve and remove the flange spreads. 2. Tack weld the flanges to the pipes.
3. Close the valve clockwise, return to open position
and cross-tighten all bolting.
3. Remove the valve and finish weld.
Install the valve according to the procedure
in the left column.
4
2.5 Sources of possible danger
This section contains some examples of
possible foreseen danger sources.
2.5.1 Mechanical
When manual operators are used, available
space should be checked in order to avoid
hands being clamped.
2.5.2 Electrical
If static charges can initiate explosions,
the valve should be grounded.
2.5.3 Thermal
If the valve is used in applications with a fluid
temperature above 40°C the outside of the body
might be hot. Sufficient measurements should
be taken to avoid burning.
A manual operated valve should be opened
and closed with sufficient protection for
the personnel operating the valve. For example:
protecting gloves.
2.5.4 Operational
Closing a valve too fast may result in
waterhammer in the upstream part of
the pipeline. Waterhammer results in excessive
stresses in the valve and will cause severe
damage.
Waterhammer should be avoided in all
circumstances.
Due to differential pressure across the valve
disc, butterfly valves have the tendency to be
closed by the flow. Take care when unlatching
the valve operating mechanism.
2.6 TROUBLESHOOTING GUIDE
Symptom Possible cause Resolution
Valve would not rotate 1. Actuator has failed 1. Replace or repair
2. Valve packed with debris 2. Flush or clean valve to remove debris
Valve leaking 1. Valve not fully closed 1. Close valve
2. Debris trapped in valve 2. Cycle and flush (with valve open) to remove debris
3. Seat is damaged 3. Replace valve
Jerky operation 1. Debris trapped in valve 1. Cycle and flush (with valve open) to remove debris
2. Air supply actuator inadequate 2. Increase air supply pressure and/or volume
KEYSTONE FIGURE 320 BUTTERFLY VALVES
INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE INSTRUCTIONS
5
Parts identification
1. Body 7. Upper spacer
2. Disc 8. Lower spacer
3. Seat 9. Packing
4. Top stem 10. Upper bushing
5. Bottom stem 11. Plug
6. Bushing
3 MAINTENANCE
The Keystone Figure 320 butterfly valve
is designed to require a minimum of
maintenance.
WARNING
Depressurize and, if necessary in case of dangerous
fluids, drain the line and flush with appropriate
cleaning fluid before starting any maintenance.
Failure to do so may cause serious personal injury
and/or equipment damage.
Before disassembling the valve, ensure the valve
has been decontaminated correctly from any
harmful gasses or liquids and that it is within a safe
temperature range for handling.
Personnel making any adjustments to the valves
should utilize suitable equipment. All required
personal protection means should be worn.
Only personnel trained in all aspects of manual and
mechanical handling techniques must carry out
handling of all valves.
3.1 Routine maintenance
Routine maintenance or lubrication is not
required other than periodic inspection to
ensure satisfactory operation and sealing.
3.2 Removing the valve
1. Turn the disc to nearly closed position.
(The disc is in line with the parallel flats in
the stem).
2. Loosen all flange bolts and remove the bolts.
3. Spread the flanges with adequate tooling,
and remove the valve.
3.3 Valve disassembly
Disassembly is not possible. The shafts are
press-fitted into the disc during the production
at factory.
Parallel flats
Bolt pattern will accept PN 6,
PN 10, PN 16 and ANSI Class 150
Figure 320
KEYSTONE FIGURE 320 BUTTERFLY VALVES
INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE INSTRUCTIONS
© 2011, 2021 Emerson Electric Co. All rights reserved 01/21. Keystone is a mark owned by one of the companies in the Emerson Automation Solutions business unit of
Emerson Electric Co. The Emerson logo is a trademark and service mark of Emerson Electric Co. All other marks are the property of their prospective owners.
The contents of this publication are presented for informational purposes only, and while every effort has been made to ensure their accuracy, they are not to be
construed as warranties or guarantees, express or implied, regarding the products or services described herein or their use or applicability. All sales are governed by
our terms and conditions, which are available upon request. We reserve the right to modify or improve the designs or specifications of such products at any time without
notice.
Emerson Electric Co. does not assume responsibility for the selection, use or maintenance of any product. Responsibility for proper selection, use and maintenance of
any Emerson Electric Co. product remains solely with the purchaser.
Emerson.com/FinalControl