CROSBY SERIES 800 AND 900 OMNI-TRIM® PRESSURE RELIEF VALVES
INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE INSTRUCTIONS
© 2017 Emerson. All rights reserved.
1 GENERAL
Crosby valves have been tested and adjusted
at the factory. As service conditions differ it
may be necessary to make slight adjustments.
These adjustments are made easily if the
instructions below are followed carefully.
WARNING
To have trouble free performance be sure to clean
the inlets and outlets of valves thoroughly before
installing.
2 STORAGE AND HANDLING
Often, valves are on hand at the job site months
before they are installed. Unless stored and
protected properly, valve performance may be
affected adversely. Rough handling and dirt
may damage or cause misalignment of the
valve parts. It is recommended that the valves
be left in their original shipping containers
and that they be stored in a warehouse or, as
a minimum, on a dry surface with a protective
covering until they are used.
Pressure relieving valves must be handled
carefully and never subjected to sharp impact
loads. They should not be struck, bumped or
dropped. Rough handling may alter the pressure
setting, deform valve parts and affect seat
tightness and valve performance adversely.
WARNING
Suitability of the material and product for the use
contemplated by the buyer is the sole responsibility
of the buyer. Also storage, installation and proper
use and application are the sole responsibility of
the purchaser. Emerson disclaims any and all
ATTENTION
The safety of lives and property often depends on
the proper operation of the pressure relief valves.
Consequently, the valves should be kept clean and
should be tested periodically and reconditioned to
make sure they function properly.
Emerson.com
Engineering Doc. #IS-V3117
liability arising out of the same.
Any installation, maintenance, adjustment,
repair and testing performed on pressure relief
valves should be done in accordance with the
requirements of all applicable Codes and Standards
under which those performing such work should
maintain proper authorization through appropriate
governing authorities.
No repair, assembly and test work done by other
than Emerson shall be covered by the warranty
extended by Emerson to its customers. You assume
full responsibility for your work. In maintaining
and repairing Crosby products you should use
only parts manufactured by Emerson. Call
your nearest Emerson regional sales office or
representative for a service engineer should you
wish assistance with your field needs.
VCIOM-06205-EN 22/04
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. General........................................................... 1
2. Storage and handling.................................... 1
3. Installation..................................................... 2
4. Testing............................................................ 3
5. Set pressure .................................................. 3
6. Maintenance - dismantling........................... 3
7. Cleaning......................................................... 4
8. Lapping of seats - metal seated
valves only..................................................... 4
9. Maintenance - assembly .............................. 4
10.Assembly of caps and lifting lever devices.. 5
11.Replacement spare parts ............................. 6
NOTE
Where valves have levers as in types D and E Top
construction, do not lift or carry valves by the levers.
Inlet and outlet protectors should remain in
place until the valve is ready to be installed on
the system.
2
CROSBY SERIES 800 AND 900 OMNI-TRIM® PRESSURE RELIEF VALVES
INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE INSTRUCTIONS
Threaded connection series 800
Seal and wire
O-ring
O-ring soft seat
Metal-to-metal seat
Base
Set screw
Spindle
Cap
Adjusting bolt
Adjusting bolt
nut
Spring washer
(top)
Spring
Spring washer
(bottom)
Disc holder
Guide
Set screw
gasket
Disc insert
Adjusting ring
Cylinder
Cap
Spring washer
(top)
Adjusting bolt
Spindle
Threaded connection series 900
Adjusting bolt nut
Disc insert
Base
Cylinder
Disc holder
Seal and wire
O-ring
Guide
O-ring soft seat
Metal-to-metal seat
Spring
Spring washer
(bottom)
3 INSTALLATION
• Inlet piping
The valve should be mounted vertically in an
upright position either directly on a nozzle from
the pressure vessel or on a short connection
fitting that provides a direct, unobstructed
flow between the vessel and the valve.
Installing a pressure relief valve in other than
this recommended position might affect its
operation adversely.
A valve should never be installed on a fitting
having a smaller inside diameter than the inlet
connection of the valve.
Compliance with the above recommendations
will assure clean, positive valve operation.
Many valves are damaged when first placed
in service because of failure to clean the
connections properly when installed.
Both the valve inlet and the vessel and/or line
on which the valve is mounted must be cleaned
thoroughly of all dirt and foreign material.
• Outlet piping
Discharge piping should be simple and direct.
A broken connection near the valve outlet is
preferred. The weight of the discharge piping
should be carried by a separate support and be
braced firmly against swaying or vibrations.
Fittings or pipe having a smaller inside
diameter than the valve outlet connections
must not be used. The flow from the valve must
discharge to a safe disposal area.
The safety of lives and property often depends
on the proper operation of the pressure relief
valves. The valves must be maintained according
to appropriate instructions and must be tested
periodically and reconditioned to ensure that they
function correctly.
Crosby pressure relief valves described in this
instruction are manufactured in accordance
with the requirements of ASME Boiler and
Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII and XIII.
3
CROSBY SERIES 800 AND 900 OMNI-TRIM® PRESSURE RELIEF VALVES
INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE INSTRUCTIONS
5 SET PRESSURE
Set pressure changes
Set pressure changes beyond the specified
spring range will necessitate a change in the
valve spring assembly consisting of the spring
and two washers.
The new spring and washers must be obtained
from Emerson and the valve must be reset and
the nameplate restamped by an authorized
repair facility.
Set pressure adjustment
Before making any adjustments reduce the
pressure under the valve seat to at least 25%
below the stamped opening pressure. This
will prevent seat damage due to turning of the
4 TESTING
Testing should be performed by trained
personnel using the applicable test procedure.
Follow these guidelines for performance of the
set pressure test:
• Test fluids - set pressure test
The test fluid should be air or nitrogen for
valves used on gas and vapor service and water
for valves used on liquid service.
NOTE
Series 800 valves are for gas and vapor service only.
Valves for steam service should be tested on steam.
When steam testing is not possible, valves for steam
service may be tested on air or nitrogen. In such
cases it may be necessary to make a correction to
the adjusted set pressure to compensate for the
difference in temperature of the test fluids.
• Temperature correction
When a valve is set on air or water at room
temperature and then used at a higher service
temperature, the cold differential set pressure
shall be corrected to exceed the set pressure
using the following temperature correction:
Operating temperature % Pressure
°F °C increase
0 - +150 -18 - +66 -
+151 - +600 +66 - +316 1%
+601 - +750 316 - +399 2%
• Valve operation
Valves intended for compressible fluid service and
tested on air, nitrogen or steam will open with a
sharp, clear popping action at the set point. Valves
for liquid service tested with water are considered
open at the first continuous unbroken stream of
liquid flowing through the valve. Sometimes it is
helpful to install a short piece of pipe in the valve
outlet to determine the opening on water.
NOTE
This table is not applicable to steam service valves.
disc insert on the nozzle seat and minimize the
chance of an inadvertent opening.
Blowdown adjustment - Series 800
(gas and vapor service only)
The adjusting ring is set at the factory and
resetting in service seldom is necessary.
Should it be necessary to change blowdown the
ring may be adjusted as follows:
CAUTION
Should any adjustments be made while the valve
is installed on a pressurized system, the valve
should be gagged while ring adjustment is made.
Remove the set screw and insert a screwdriver
to engage the ring notches. Turning the ring to
the right raises the ring, thereby decreasing the
blowdown. Turning the ring to the left lowers
the ring, thereby increasing the blowdown.
The adjusting ring should not be moved more
than two notches before retesting. When
making adjustments, always keep count of the
number of notches and the direction in which
the ring is moved. This will permit returning to
the original setting in case of error.
6 MAINTENANCE - DISMANTLING
1. Remove the cap.
2. Before removing the adjusting bolt, take a
measurement from the top of the adjusting
bolt to the top of the cylinder as a reference
for resetting the valve later.
3. Loosen the adjusting bolt nut and turn the
adjusting bolt counterclockwise to remove
the load on the spring completely. Unless
this is done, unnecessary damage to the
seat or misalignment of the trim parts may
occur when the valve is reassembled.
4. On series 800 valves remove the set screw
and gasket.
5. Unscrew the cylinder from the base. Lift the
cylinder from the base making sure that the
guide remains on the base.
Note: if the guide is not removed with the
base, invert the entire valve and remove the
base. Then remove the guide, disc holder
and disc insert.
6. Remove the spindle, spring and spring
washers.
7. Invert the base/guide/disc assembly and
remove the base.
8. Remove the disc holder assembly.
• Metal seated valves
The disc insert is not attached to the disc holder
so use care when removing this assembly.
• O-ring seated valves
Remove the disc insert by inserting a drive pin
or similar tool into the hole in the disc holder
and press out the disc insert. Remove the
O-ring with a suitable tool. Be careful not to
damage the O-ring groove.
4
CROSBY SERIES 800 AND 900 OMNI-TRIM® PRESSURE RELIEF VALVES
INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE INSTRUCTIONS
8 LAPPING OF SEATS - METAL SEATED
VALVES ONLY
Many different methods exist for lapping valve
seats but certain essential steps are required
for satisfactory results. Extreme care should be
taken throughout to make certain that the seats
are kept perfectly flat. The following procedure
is suggested for lapping bases and disc inserts:
1. Never lap the disc against the base. Lap
each part separately against a cast-iron
lapping block of proper size. These blocks
hold the lapping compound in their surface
pores and must be recharged frequently.
2. Check the lapping block frequently on a
good lapping block reconditioner to make
certain that it is perfectly flat.
3. If considerable lapping is required, spread
a thin coat of medium coarse lapping
compound on the block. After lapping
with this, lap again with a medium grade
compound. The first step may be omitted
unless much lapping is called for. Next, lap
again using a fine grade compound. Lap
the block against the seat. Do not rotate the
block continuously, but use an oscillating
motion as in grinding automobile valves.
4. When the seat is flat and all nicks and
marks have disappeared, remove all
compound from the lapping block and seat.
Apply polishing compound to another block
and lap the seat with this. As the lapping
nears completion, only the compound left
in the pores of the block should be present.
This should give a very smooth finish. If
scratches appear, the cause is probably
dirty lapping compound. These scratches
should be removed by using a compound
free from foreign matter.
5. After wiping off all compounds, the valve is
ready for assembly.
7 CLEANING
The following instructions are general
guidelines. Certain applications may require the
use of special cleaning procedures.
1. After the valve has been dismantled
completely, the seats on both the nozzle
and the disc insert should be examined to
determine how badly they are damaged,
if at all. Any severe damage may make it
advisable to replace the parts.
2. External parts, such as the cylinder and cap,
can be cleaned by immersion in a bath such
as a hot oakite solution or equivalent.
3. Internal parts, except O-rings, can be
cleaned using acetone, denatured alcohol
or any other suitable solvent. Mechanical
cleaning of internal parts, except seats,
can be performed using fine sandpaper or
emery cloth.
9 MAINTENANCE - ASSEMBLY
1. Prior to assembly, the following parts are
to be coated with a lubricant/sealant such
as pure nickel 'Never-Seez' or equivalent.
Other lubricants/sealants can be used
depending on service conditions.
2. Disc assembly
• Metal seated valve
With the disc holder in the inverted
position, drop in the disc insert.
• O-ring soft seated valve
Coat the entire O-ring (except TFE
O-rings) with Parker Super O-Lube. Insert
the O-ring into the groove in the disc
holder. Push the disc insert into the disc
holder. TFE O-rings may require the use
of a small press or, with care, a hammer
and a punch.
3. (for series 800 valves only) Screw the
adjusting ring onto the guide until the
adjusting ring is in the lowest position.
4. With the guide inverted, drop in the disc
assembly.
5. With the guide still inverted, install the base
into the guide.
6. The base/guide/disc assembly can now
be turned upright and placed into a vise
or fixture for assembly of the remaining
components.
Note: be sure to clamp only onto the wrench
flats of the base.
7. Place the spring and spring washers onto
the spindle.
8. While holding the spindle in place, lower the
cylinder into place on the base and screw
tightly onto the base.
9. Screw the adjusting bolt nut onto the
adjusting bolt and install into the cylinder.
10.Screw the cap onto the cylinder.
Cap to cylinder
sealing surface
Spring washer
bevels
Set screw gasket
sealing surfaces
Series 800 only
Set screw threads
Spindle point bearing
surface (metal seated
valve only)
Guide sealing
surfaces
Base to cylinder threads
Adjusting
bolt threads
Cap threads
The following steps apply to series 800 only
11.Adjust the adjusting ring up five notches
from the lowest position.
12. Install the set screw and set screw gasket
making sure that the set screw engages
one of the notches of the adjusting ring. The
adjusting ring should move back and forth
slightly after the set screw is tightened.
5
CROSBY SERIES 800 AND 900 OMNI-TRIM® PRESSURE RELIEF VALVES
INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE INSTRUCTIONS
10 ASSEMBLY OF CAPS AND LIFTING LEVER
DEVICES
Type A (screwed cap)
Apply pure nickel Never-Seez or equivalent to
the cap sealing surface and screw the cap onto
the top of the cylinder. Tighten the cap with a
suitable wrench.
Type B (screwed cap with test rod)
Apply pure nickel Never-Seez to the cap sealing
surface and screw the cap onto the top of
the cylinder. Tighten the cap with a suitable
wrench. Install the cap plug O-ring and screw
the cap plug into the cap. The test rod is
installed only during system hydrostatic testing.
Never install the test rod unless performing
system hydrostatic testing.
Type D (packed lifting lever)
1. Apply Loctite 242 or equivalent to the
spindle threads. Screw the spindle nut onto
the spindle. Screw on the cap hand tight.
2. Apply Parker Super O-Lube to the cam
O-ring and install onto the cam. Insert the
cam into the sleeve. Install the lever onto
the cam and secure with the lever pin.
3. Screw the lever assembly into the cap.
If the cam interferes with the spindle nut,
remove the spindle assembly and raise the
spindle nut. Repeat until the spindle nut is
approximately 1/16” above the cam.
4. Once the spindle nut is in position, remove
the cap and screw the locknut on the
spindle and, while securing the spindle
nut firmly with locking pliers, tighten the
locknut.
5. Apply pure nickel Never-Seez or equivalent
to the cap threads and to the cap sealing
surface. Screw the cap onto the top of the
cylinder. Tighten the cap with a suitable
wrench.
6. Apply Parker Super O-Lube or equivalent
to the cam sleeve O-ring and install the
O-ring. Install the lever assembly.
Type E (packed lifting lever with test rod)
Assembly of the Type E lifting lever is identical
to the Type D with the addition of the cap
plug O-ring and the cap plug. The test rod
is installed only during system hydrostatic
testing.
Never install the test rod unless performing
system hydrostatic testing.
Cap
Type A
Test rod
Cap plug
Cap plug
O-ring
Cap
Type B
View showing valve
gagged with test rod
(Types B and E)
Locknut
Spindle nut
Cam
Cap
Type D
Cam sleeve
O-ring
Cam sleeve
Lever pin
Cam O-ring
Lever
Cap plug
Cap plug O-ring
Locknut
Spindle nut
Cam
Cap
Type E
Cam sleeve
O-ring
Cam sleeve
Lever pin
Cam O-ring
Lever
6
CROSBY SERIES 800 AND 900 OMNI-TRIM® PRESSURE RELIEF VALVES
INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE INSTRUCTIONS
11 REPLACEMENT SPARE PARTS
Ordering information
Emerson recommends that a sufficient
inventory of spare parts be maintained to
support process requirements. Always be
sure to use genuine Emerson parts to ensure
continued product performance and warranty.
Parts
To order parts, the following information
should always be included:
1. Quantity
2. Part name, i.e. (disc insert)
3. Size, style, type and valve number
4. Shop and/or serial number
5. Original purchase order number
(if the nameplate has been destroyed)
NOTE
The size, style, shop number, set pressure and serial
number always can be found on the valve nameplate.
Springs with washers
To order springs with washers, the required
valve set pressure also must be specified in
addition to the other parts information. Should
back pressure (fixed or variable) or elevated
temperature exist during operation, also
specify these conditions.
For additional information about
Crosby Series 800 and 900 pressure relief
valves, see technical datasheet VCTDS-00594.
VCTDS-06205-EN © 2016, 2022 Emerson Electric Co. All rights reserved 04/22. Crosby is a mark owned by one of the companies in the Emerson Automation Solutions
business unit of Emerson Electric Co. The Emerson logo is a trademark and service mark of Emerson Electric Co. All other marks are the property of their prospective
owners.
The contents of this publication are presented for informational purposes only, and while every effort has been made to ensure their accuracy, they are not to be
construed as warranties or guarantees, express or implied, regarding the products or services described herein or their use or applicability. All sales are governed by
our terms and conditions, which are available upon request. We reserve the right to modify or improve the designs or specifications of such products at any time without
notice.
Emerson Electric Co. does not assume responsibility for the selection, use or maintenance of any product. Responsibility for proper selection, use and maintenance of
any Emerson Electric Co. product remains solely with the purchaser.
Emerson.com