VANESSA SERIES 30,000 TRIPLE OFFSET VALVE (TOV)
INSTALLATION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL
© 2020 Emerson. All Rights Reserved.
Basic configuration - Body style double flanged, wafer, lug and buttweld
1.2 Handling requirements
A - Packaged valves
Crates: The lifting and the handling of valves
packed in crates shall be carried out by
a forklift truck, by means of appropriate
fork hitches.
Cases: The lifting of valves packed in cases
shall be carried out from the lifting
points and the center of gravity
position which have been marked.
The transportation of all packed
material must be carried out safely and
following local safety regulations.
B - Non-packaged valves
The lifting and the handling of these valves shall
be carried out by using appropriate means and
by respecting the carrying limits. The handling
must be carried out on pallets, protecting the
machined surfaces to avoid any damage.
Emerson.com/FinalControl
APPLICABLE PRODUCT RANGE
• Series 30,000 basic configuration, double
flanged body style, which can be installed by
connecting each valve flange to each pipe
flange with the applicable bolting.
• Series 30,000 basic configuration, lug body
style with threaded holes, which shall be
bolted to both pipe flanges.
• Series 30,000 basic configuration, wafer body
style, which can be installed between two pipe
flanges with the applicable studs or bolts.
• Series 30,000 basic configuration, buttweld
ends, which must be welded to the line.
SECTION 1 - VALVE STORAGE
1.1 Preparation for shipment and preservation
The valve is properly packed in order to protect
the parts that could be subject to deterioration
during transportation and storage on site.
Whenever applicable the valve shall be stored
within the original packaging.
In case either the unpacking or the replacing
of the original packaging become necessary
(should for example an inspection be prescribed
upon the arrival on site), the original protection
conditions of the valve shall be preserved.
Moreover the following precautions shall
be taken:
1. The valve must be packed with the disc
in the closed position. The flange sealing
surfaces (raised faces) or the buttweld
ends are protected with suitable protective
grease (where applicable according to the
valve material selection). The end faces of
the valve must be protected with plastic or
wooden discs fixed with straps.
2. In case of bare shaft valves the ends
of the shaft must be protected with
dedicated packaging.
3. An appropriate packaging shall be
considered in case of a valve with “fail open”
pneumatic or hydraulic actuator, where
the valve disc is in the open position and
protrudes beyond the face to face.
An actuated valve must be securely and
safely palleted or crated with special
attention to ensure that parts of actuator
(especially tubing and fittings or accessories)
do not extend beyond the skid/crate.
4. The type of packaging must be defined
in the customer’s order and will be
appropriate to ensure safe transportation
to final destination and conservation before
installation.
The operators shall be specifically trained to
avoid contamination.
VCIOM-00006-EN 21/07
SAFETY INFORMATION
• This document provides all the necessary
safety information related to Handling and
Storage, Installation, Use and Maintenance of
Vanessa Series 30.000 Triple Offset Valves.
• Safety statements have been purposely placed
throughout this manual whenever operating
or maintenance procedures, practices or
conditions are considered critical to the
protection of personnel (WARNING) or to
prevent valve damage (NOTICE and CAUTION).
2
A B
C D
VANESSA SERIES 30,000 TRIPLE OFFSET VALVE (TOV)
INSTALLATION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL
CAUTION
For valve handling and/or lifting, the lifting
equipment (fasteners, hooks, etc.) must be sized
and selected by taking into account the valve weight
indicated on the packing list and/or delivery note.
Lifting and handling must be carried out only by
qualified personnel.
Fasteners must be protected by plastic covers in
sharp corner areas.
Caution must be given during handling to avoid
that equipment passes over workers or any other
place where a possible fall could cause damage.
In any case, the local safety regulations must
be followed.
FIGURE 1
LIFTING AND HANDLING OF VALVES INSTALLED IN HORIZONTAL PIPELINES
LIFTING AND HANDLING OF VALVES INSTALLED IN VERTICAL PIPELINES
NOTICE
In the upper side always fasten the valve from
the bracket.
Solutions A and C in figure 1 are applicable when the
protrusion of the bottom hub from the flange or body
is sufficient to position securely the lifting strap.
Solutions B and D in figure 1 are applicable when the
protrusion of the bottom hub from the flange or body
is NOT sufficient to position securely the lifting strap.
In such cases use the flange holes close to the bottom
hub and fasten the valve securely. For actuated valves
refer to the product technical documentation provided
with the relevant supply.
1.3 Storage and preservation before installation
In case valves have to be stored before
installation, the storage must be carried out in
a controlled way and performed in accordance
to the following criteria:
1. The valves must be stocked in a closed,
clean and dry storage room.
2. The disc must be in the closed position,
and the end faces must be protected with
plastic or wooden discs fixed with straps.
If possible, keep the original protection.
3. Periodical checks must be carried out in
the storage area to verify that the abovementioned conditions are maintained
throughout.
NOTICE
Storage in an open area for a limited period of time
can be considered only in case the valves have
appropriate packaging, are packed in cases lined with
tarred paper, and contents are well protected with
barrier sacks.
3
VANESSA SERIES 30,000 TRIPLE OFFSET VALVE (TOV)
INSTALLATION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL
SECTION 2 - INSTALLATION
2.1 Valve inspection
1. Carefully remove the valve from the
shipping package (box or pallet) avoiding any
damage to the valve or, in case of automated
valves, to the electric or pneumatic/
hydraulic actuator or instrumentation.
2. The valves are shipped with the ends protected
with caps and a thin layer of protective grease
(where applicable according to the valve
material selection). Before installing the valve,
remove the caps and clean carefully, then
de-grease both surfaces with a solvent. Clean
the inside of the valve using an air line. Ensure
that there are no solid objects such as pieces
of wood, plastic or packing materials inside the
valve or on the valve seat.
3. Inspect the seal ring to ensure that
it was not damaged during handling.
This is especially important in case of
valves shipped with the disc set in the open
position and with “fail-open” actuators.
4. Ensure that the packing gland-adjusting
nuts against the packing gland flange
cannot be loosened by hand.
WARNING
Ensure that the materials of construction listed on
the valve nameplate (refer to figure 12 on page 12)
are appropriate for the service intended and conform
to the contractual specifications/requirements. Also
ensure that the valve pressure/temperature limits
shown on the valve nameplate (refer to figure 12 on
page 12) are suitable for the process conditions. If in
doubt contact your nearest Emerson sales office.
2.2 Valve installation
Vanessa double flanged, lug, wafer valves
are suitable to be installed in accordance
with ASME B16.5, ASME B16.47 or EN 1092.1
requirements, without limiting the applicability
criteria.
Flange finish and face dimensions are fully
in accordance with the applicable standard,
without gasket seating surface interruptions
(which are allowed by API 609 par. 5.7).
In case of non-standard flanges the installation
conditions are agreed during the flange
dimensioning.
The optimal installation is setting the valve with
the shaft in the horizontal plane. The second
best option is to have the shaft at an angle
to minimize problems associated with solid
particles present in the fluid that otherwise
could deposit in the lower bearing area.
Unless otherwise recommended, the valve
should be installed with the disc in the closed
position to ensure that the seal ring in the disc
is not damaged during installation. Particular
care should be given to those valves equipped
with 'fail-open' actuators.
CAUTION
Whenever the pipe is internally lined, the disc
must not come into contact with the lining during
its stroke.
Such verification is critical especially in case of
lug and wafer body style in order to avoid any
damage to the valve.
FIGURE 2
Isolation applications
The installation direction affects valve operating
torques and sealing performances. An indication
plate "ΔP" (figure 2) is applied on the high
pressure shutoff side when valve is closed as a
Sealing side when closed
For operating temperatures above 200 °C
(392 °F) thermal insulation of the valve body is
recommended.
WARNING
If the valve has threaded tapped holes in the hub
areas, it is recommended to use stud bolts with
nut to connect the valve in this zone. The depth
of the tapped holes in the bodies of all Series
30,000 valves is specified in the product technical
documentation provided with the relevant supply.
Failure to use the correct studs dimensions may
result in serious injuries, flange leakage, damage to
the valve thread.
NOTICE
It is recommended to perform piping flushing before
installation of valve.
When this is not possible, valves must be set with
the disc in full open position before starting the
flushing operation.
NOTICE
The valve trim is designed to withstand and to seal
against the design differential pressure marked on
the valve nameplate (refer to the nameplate template
provided on page 12).
When positive isolation is required including isolation for
safe access to downstream line, as a minimum the valve
shall be installed with high pressure facing the preferred
isolation side of the valve, the so-called "positive
isolation side" or "shaft side".
The valve trim shall not be used as a sole protective
mean against the hazard caused by the closed valve
upstream pressure.
Additional precautions against pressure hazard risks
shall be taken into consideration by end users based on
their own piping risk assessment.
If the valve has welded ends, perfectly clean and
degrease the ends to be welded (of both valve and
pipe), using a cloth with acetone or a similar product.
Insert correctly the valve between the edges of the
pipe to be welded by taking into consideration the
plate that indicates the preferential side for sealing.
Carry out an initial accurate spot welding verifying the
perfect alignment of the edge and axis of the valve.
Carry out the welding of the edge by proceeding in
alternate way on both sides to reduce the tensions
introduced by the welding. It is important to follow
the relevant preheating and interpass temperature
prescriptions.
Handling and lifting of the valves during installation
MUST be performed by following the same criteria and
instructions described in previous points "1.2 Handling
requirements" and "1.3 Storage and preservation
before Installation".
reference for the direction of the installation.
The best sealing performance, also for bidirectional services, is ensured when pressure acts on
the shaft side of the valve, and is recommended
when the service tightness requirements are
more stringent in one specific direction.
Control applications
Perfect sealing is not required. The "ΔP" plate
may be fixed on either flange indicating the
preferred direction. Adhere to the direction of
installation indicated on the relevant flange as
the selection of the actuator has been made for
that specific direction of installation.
4
VANESSA SERIES 30,000 TRIPLE OFFSET VALVE (TOV)
INSTALLATION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL
2.3 Valve verification
1. Tighten the packing box enough to prevent
shaft leakage. Over-tightening will decrease
packing component life and increase
operating torque.
2. Check the operability of the valve by stroking
it to “full open” and “full close”. To verify the
valve orientation, the disc position indicator
mark on the shaft (during the normal open
to close cycle) should rotate clockwise from
a position in line with the pipe (see figure 3A)
to a position parallel to the pipe flanges
(see figure 3B).
2.4 Commissioning
1. Whenever the piping system is pressurized
with water for testing or in case it has been
shut down after testing for a long time,
the following recommendations should
be adopted:
a. Use corrosion inhibitor with water to
pressurize the piping system.
b. After testing, the piping system should
be depressurized and the test water
completely drained.
c. After testing, the valve must be operated
through a complete opening/closing cycle
and the disc should be left in half-open
position. Apply a film of protective oil in
the packing area by means of a paintbrush.
The protective oil must fill the area between
shaft and packing bushing.
FIGURE 3A
FIGURE 3B
Clockwise to close
Clockwise to close
Shaft key
Disc in open position
Disc in closed position
Disc position
indicator mark
Disc - shaft key and position indicator mark plane
Disc - shaft key and position indicator mark plane
Disc position indicator mark Shaft key
2. The valve is fully metallic and typically
withstands the cleaning agents used for
metallic pipelines.
5
VANESSA SERIES 30,000 TRIPLE OFFSET VALVE (TOV)
INSTALLATION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL
3.3 TROUBLESHOOTING GUIDE
Symptom Possible cause Resolution
Valve does not rotate 1. Packing is too tight 1. Loosen gland nuts
2. Actuator has failed 2. Replace or repair
3. Valve packed with debris 3. Flush or clean valve to remove debris
4. Shaft key has sheared 4. Determine cause of shearing and correctly replace shaft key
5. Fluid solidification between bearings and shaft 5. Flush bearings by flushing holes (if present)
Shaft packing leaking 1. Packing gland flange nuts too loose 1. Tighten packing gland flange nuts
2. Packing box damaged 2. Replace packing box - see Paragraph 4.1
Bottom flange gasket leaking 1. Bottom flange bolting loose 1. Tighten bottom flange bolting
2. Spiral wound gasket damage 2. Replace gasket - see Paragraph 4.3
Valve leaking 1. Valve not fully closed 1. Close valve
2. Debris trapped in valve 2. Cycle and flush (with valve open) to remove debris
3. Actuator mechanical stops improperly set 3. Remove the stop for closure and reset properly
4. Seal ring damaged 4. Replace seal ring - see Paragraph 4.2
Jerky operation 1. Packing box is too tight 1. Loosen packing gland nuts, cycle valve, retighten
2. Air supply inadequate 2. Increase air supply pressure and/or volume
3. Actuator/shaft adapter misaligned 3. Remove actuator mounting and realign
SECTION 3 - USE
3.1 Valve use
Vanessa Series 30,000 valves do not feature
cavities where the process fluid may be trapped
and isolated from the main line. Therefore,
any overpressure is not possible as long as
the system to which the valve is connected to
remains protected against overpressure by a
suitable device.
Vanessa Series 30,000 does not generate hot /
cold surfaces through their own operating
function. Hot or cold surfaces of the valve are
generated by the process temperature of the
system, where the valve is installed. Hence
their protection shall follow the requirements
of the system itself. The valve bracket does not
need to be protected.
The valve body is more resistant than the
pipe to which it is connected, being of simple
cylindrical-shape with outward cylindrical
branches and thickness much higher than the
pipe itself. Therefore, the valve body cannot
be taken as a limiting factor for the maximum
allowable loads transmitted by the pipe.
3.2 Operating Procedures
A Vanessa Series 30,000 needs either an
actuator or manual gear operator to be operated.
Follow the applicable instructions provided by
the actuator or gear manufacturer.
The valve closes by turning the shaft clockwise
when observed from the bracket top end.
6
VANESSA SERIES 30,000 TRIPLE OFFSET VALVE (TOV)
INSTALLATION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL
SECTION 4 - MAINTENANCE
WARNING
Depressurize the line before starting any
maintenance. Failure to do so may result in serious
personnel injury and/or equipment damage.
4.1 Packing box maintenance
If shaft leakage is observed through the packing
box, tighten the gland nuts slowly and evenly
until the leakage stops.
CAUTION
Do not over-tighten packing gland nuts. Overtightening will increase the torque required to
operate the valve.
When tightening the gland nut, use half-turn
increments until leakage stops.
FIGURE 4
Refer to figure 4.
To replace the packing rings proceed as follows:
1. Remove the gear/actuator and relevant
connecting keys (4f). Keep record of the
gear/actuator position in relation to the valve
position for a later correct re-assembly of the
gear/actuator.
2. Remove gland nuts (5d). If present, remove
bellevilIe springs (5n), and keep record of
their quantity and assembly configuration to
reassemble them correctly (point 7).
3. Remove packing gland flange (5f), anti blowout ring if present (5g), and gland bushing (5c).
4. Remove packing rings (5a). If the valve
features packing flush option, remove
lantern ring also (5h).
5. Carefully clean the packing cavity and
shaft (4a).
6. Apply a thin film of lubricant on each new
packing ring (5a) surfaces (lubricant should
be in accordance with Table 3). Insert new
packing rings, being mindful of inserting
the two braided rings at the bottom and top
of the entire packing. If the valve features a
packing flush option, insert the lantern ring
(5h) in the same original sequence (or as
indicated in figure 4). If the packing rings are
of the split type, install with splits staggered
at 180° from each other.
7. Reassemble packing bushing (5c), anti blowout ring if present (5g), and gland flange
(5f). If present, assemble the belleville
springs (5n), following the assembly
configuration noted in the previous point 2,
then assemble by hand the gland nuts (5d)
without tightening (after applying a thin film
of lubricant on the threads of the stud bolts,
in accordance with Table 3).
8. Reassemble keys (4f) on the upper shaft end.
9. Reassemble gear/actuator and close
the valve.
CAUTION
Do not force actuator on the shaft! This should be
a loose fit.
10. Tighten gland nuts (5d) in accordance to
Table 1 (Torque values for gland nuts).
11.Cycle the valve.
12.Pressurize again the line.
13. If a leakage is detected, tighten the gland nuts
slowly and evenly until the leakage stops.
7
VANESSA SERIES 30,000 TRIPLE OFFSET VALVE (TOV)
INSTALLATION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL
4.2 Sealing elements maintenance
To replace the sealing elements proceed as
follows (refer to figure 5):
WARNING
Depressurize the line before starting any
maintenance. Failure to do so may cause serious
personnel injury and/or damage to the valve.
1. Remove the valve with the disc in the closed
position from line. Clean the valve according
to proper cleaning procedure as outlined
by the plant or according to a recommended
procedure.
2. Open the valve a few degrees.
3. Loosen the seal retainer flange screws (2c).
If screws are secured, unbend the bevel.
4. Open valve to full open position.
NOTICE
In small size valves it may be easier to remove
the actuator and rotate the disc beyond the
full-open position to provide more space to work
with components.
5. Carefully remove the seal retainer flange
screws (2c) with security washers (2d) if
present, then remove the seal retainer
flange (2b).
6. Remove seal ring (3a) and spiral wound
gasket (3b).
7. Inspect the body seat. Clean it, if necessary,
with fine abrasive cloth (No. 600 or finer),
after having cleaned it perfectly with solvent.
8. Inspect and clean the disc seal ring area
and spiral wound gasket groove. No foreign
particles must be present before spiral
wound gasket and seal ring assembly.
FIGURE 5
CAUTION
Apply only a thin film of lubricant where indicated.
Failure to do so will hinder the assembly and may
cause damage to the valve.
10.Assemble the new spiral wound gasket
(3b) in the disc groove, without forcing and
taking care not to damage it.
11.Replace seal ring (3a) on the disc through
the shaft side of the body. To properly
locate the seal ring refer to figure 6: align
the internal slot of the seal ring (3a) to the
reference pin (F).
12.Assemble the seal retainer flange (2b).
Refer to figure 6: make sure that the slot on
the edge of the seal retainer flange (B) is in
correspondence with reference pin (F).
13.Hand tighten all the fastening screws (2c),
with relevant lock washers (2d) if present,
after applying Loctite® 270 or equivalent on
the bottom side of the threads (ensure they
are perfectly clean with a solvent before
applying Loctite®). Then, verify that the seal
ring can be moved freely by hand without
rotating it.
14.Apply a thin film of lubricant to the body seat
and to the external edge (sealing conical
surface) of the seal ring (3a). Lubricant
should be in accordance with Table 3.
9. Apply a thin film of lubricant on the surface
area of the disc (2a) where seal ring (3a)
and spiral wound gasket (3b) will be located
(lubricant should be in accordance with
Table 3).
15.Seat and unseat the valve twice.
16.Keep the valve in the closed position without
applying torque. Tighten at least two
retaining screws (2c) to avoid the seal ring
moving from the position found.
17.Open the disc a few degrees and tighten, using
a torque wrench, all screws (2c). Use a torque
value from Table 2 (refer to figure 6).
It is recommended to use a cross-pattern
tightening sequence to tighten all retaining
screws.
8
VANESSA SERIES 30,000 TRIPLE OFFSET VALVE (TOV)
INSTALLATION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL
IMPORTANT
Refer to figure 6:
The seal ring is supplied with an index marking (A).
After the complete assembling, verify that the
index marking (A) can be seen in the slot (B) of the
seal retainer flange.
Slot (B) and marking (A) have to be perfectly aligned.
If not visible or not aligned, loosen the retaining
screws, re-align the index marking and start
again the procedure from point 12.
18. If the seal retainer flange screws were secured
by bevels (on the retainer flange near each
screw holes), use peening tool to re-bend the
bevels over each screw and ensure correct
and safe screw locking (refer to figure 7).
FIGURE 6
FIGURE 7
4.3 Bottom flange gasket maintenance
If it is necessary to replace the bottom spiral
wound gasket, proceed as follows (see figure 8):
1. Remove the bottom flange (6a).
2. Remove the spiral wound gasket (6c).
3. Inspect and clean the groove of the spiral
wound gasket in the body and in the bottom
flange.
4. Apply a thin film of lubricant on the bottom
spiral wound gasket (6c), then insert it
on the bottom flange (6a), centering and
positioning all on the body bore (lubricant
should be in accordance with Table 3).
Rotate the bottom flange to accommodate
the correct position and center the holes
with the threaded holes on the body.
5. Apply a thin film of lubricant on the threads
of the screws (6b), then introduce and
tighten them using a torque value from
Table 2 (lubricant should be in accordance
with Table 3).
FIGURE 8
9
5.1 Bearing and packing flushing
Bearing flushing
The bearing flushing option is obtained
by adding two tapped holes, one in the
bottom flange and one in the neck of the
valve (see figure 9). This option includes the
introduction of a lantern ring at the bottom
of the valve packing. Bearing flushing is
recommended when the valve is installed in
a service where the particles present in the
fluid or the line fluid itself can migrate into
the shaft/bearing area causing problems.
A typical example is sulphur recovery services,
where the sulphur in a liquid or gaseous
state may enter this area and crystallize as a
consequence of the plant shutdown.
VANESSA SERIES 30,000 TRIPLE OFFSET VALVE (TOV)
INSTALLATION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL
SECTION 5 - STANDARD OPTIONS
This section is referred only to Vanessa
products configured with the following options:
- bearing and packing flushing,
- live loaded packing.
FIGURE 9
FIGURE 10
The bearing protector
minimizes the consumption
of the clean fluid
FIGURE 9A
Bearing flushing inlet
Bearing flushing inlet
Bearing flushing connection
Bearing flushing connection Packing flushing
connection
Disc
side
Shaft
side
Flush pressure = P + 5%
This crystallisation may result in an increase
in the torque requirement of the valve. Another
example may be a fluid that contains particles
(e.g. catalyst) that may cause similar problems
to those highlighted above.
In these types of situations the bearing
flushing may be used to introduce an inert fluid
compatible with the process via the bearing
flush taps (see figure 10) to create a pressure
barrier which prevents the introduction of the
unwanted product from the line into the shaft/
bearing area. The pressure of the flushing fluid
must be slightly higher than the line pressure
(i.e. P1 + approx 5%). This acts as a safety
measure and a positive contribution to increase
the life expectancy of the valve, as well as
maintaining the constant torque requirement
and hence operability of the valve.
The bearings may be continuously flushed, this
is recommended for critical services such as
described above. Periodic flushing may be used
for less critical services in order to clean the
bearing/shaft interface or in order to prepare
the valve for a shutdown of the process.
The bearing flush taps may also be used to
introduce a lubricant compatible with the
process to the bearing areas for high cycle or
dry gas service. The presence of the bearing
protector drastically reduces the consumption
of the flushing or lubricant by reducing the
amount of fluid required to give efficient service
(see figure 9A).
Contact your nearest Emerson sales office for
further information.
10
VANESSA SERIES 30,000 TRIPLE OFFSET VALVE (TOV)
INSTALLATION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL
FIGURE 11
Packing flushing
The packing flushing option is obtained
by the introduction of a tapped hole that
communicates directly to the packing box in the
neck of the valve via a lantern ring. This option
can be used to monitor the rate of emission of
the line fluid toward the atmosphere. This flush
tap may also be used to capture and evacuate
line fluid to prevent any atmospheric loss, with
the lantern ring and split packing configuration
acting as a double block and bleed unit.
A suitable fluid may also be introduced via the
packing flush tap into the packing area so as
to eliminate any possible fugitive emissions
(see figure 10). By keeping the fluid pressurized
at a pressure that is higher with respect to
the line pressure, the passage of any line fluid
towards the atmosphere can be effectively
blocked giving the valve excellent fugitive
emissions control. However, the fluid used
must be compatible with the line fluid as it may
have the possibility of finding its way into the
line as well as toward the atmosphere.
As with the bearing flushing option this
may also be used to introduce a lubricant
compatible with the process.
The selection of the most appropriate type
of lubricant for flushing is under the user's
responsibility. Contact your nearest Emerson
sales office for further details or process
specific information.
5.2 Live loaded packing
The live loaded packing option is designed to
supplement the standard characteristics of the
Vanessa valve packing. This option guarantees
a constant compression of the packing set.
The fact that the packing is subject to a near
constant force supplied by the Belleville springs
reduces the maintenance frequency required by
the packing (see figure 11).
Care should be given in replacing the Belleville
springs as their order (parallel or in series)
should be understood and kept.
The packing flange nuts should be tightened in
accordance with Table 1.
The drawing in figure 11 shows typical set ups
for the live loaded packing option.
11
M10 10 7 20 15
M12 15 11 25 18
M14 20 15 45 33
M16 25 18 60 44
M18 30 22 65 48
M20 80 59 200 148
M24 180 133 340 251
M27 210 155 375 277
M30 290 214 495 366
M33 310 229 700 517
M42 - - 1250 923
M6 10 7
M8 20 15
M10 45 33
M12 70 52
M14 110 81
M16 175 129
M18 235 173
M20 335 247
M22 370 273
M24 460 339
M27 595 439
M30 760 561
M33 785 579
M36 1010 745
M39 1315 970
M42 1625 1199
M45 2035 1501
VANESSA SERIES 30,000 TRIPLE OFFSET VALVE (TOV)
INSTALLATION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL
TABLE 1 - TORQUE VALUES FOR PACKING FLANGE NUTS
Bolt dimensions
mm
Nominal pressure
ASME CLASS 150 - 300
EN PN 10 - 16 - 25 - 40
ASME CLASS 600 - 900 - 1500
EN PN 63 - 100 - 110 - 150 - 260
Torque Torque
Nm ft·lb Nm ft·lb
TABLE 2 - General torque values for retainer
flange and bottom flange bolting
Bolt
dimensions
(mm)
Torque values
Torque
(Nm)
Torque
(ft·lb)
TABLE 3 - Lubrication
Type Component to lubricate
Light mineral oil 1. Packing rings (5a)
2. Disc surface areas (2a) for seal ring and spiral wound
gasket location
3. Spiral wound gasket (6c)
Molykote® - P74 (grease) or equivalent 1. Stud bolts/nuts (5d)
2. Screw (6b)
Molykote® spray - 321 R (dry lubricant)
or equivalent
1. Seal ring (3a)
2. Body seat
NOTE
Tighten the packing flange nuts slowly and evenly
until the leakage stops. The torque values are max
suggested value.
SECTION 6 - DECOMMISSIONING
Instruction for decommissioning
Comply with the national regulations for disposal and recycling.
The comprehensive list of materials is available in the relevant technical literature.
12
1936
S/N:
MODEL:
SERIES 30,000
TAG:
RATING
BODY
NPS/DN
DISC
SHAFT
SEAT
DESIGN DATA:
YEAR
P.
T
P.
.
VANLT-0006-EN © 2008, 2021 Emerson Electric Co. All rights reserved 07/21. Vanessa is a mark owned by one of the companies in the Emerson Automation Solutions
business unit of Emerson Electric Co. The Emerson logo is a trademark and service mark of Emerson Electric Co. All other marks are the property of their prospective
owners.
The contents of this publication are presented for informational purposes only, and while every effort has been made to ensure their accuracy, they are not to be construed
as warranties or guarantees, express or implied, regarding the products or services described herein or their use or applicability. All sales are governed by our terms and
conditions, which are available upon request. We reserve the right to modify or improve the designs or specifications of such products at any time without notice.
Emerson Electric Co. does not assume responsibility for the selection, use or maintenance of any product. Responsibility for proper selection, use and maintenance of
any Emerson Electric Co. product remains solely with the purchaser.
Emerson.com/FinalControl
Disc material
Design differential
pressure
Max. allowable pressure
at max. temperature Max. allowable pressure at
ambient temperature
Year of construction
Valve tag Shaft material
Pressure rating
Seat face material
Min/max design temperature
Manufacturing plant site
Model
FIGURE 12
Valve model ID code
Serial number
Body material
Nominal diameter
VANESSA SERIES 30,000 TRIPLE OFFSET VALVE (TOV)
INSTALLATION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL